Add types tag (#4235)
twigphp/Twig: doc/tags/types.rst

``types``

> =======

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=========
```

> The ``types`` tag declares the types for one or more names variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``types`` tag declares the types for template variables.
```

> To do this, specify a :ref:`mapping <twig-expressions>` of names to their types as string constants. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do this, specify a :ref:`mapping <twig-expressions>` of names to their types as strings.
```

Author: I wanted to make clear that interpolated strings (let alone concatenated ones) are not supported. But perhaps that's a bit pedantic. Users will run into a `SyntaxError` if they try anything other than constant strings.

Reviewer: A concatenation of strings is an expression, not a string. So, "string" is very clear IMHO.

> Here is how you declare that variable ``foo`` is a boolean, while ``bar`` is an integer (see note below):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is how you declare that variable ``foo`` is a ``boolean``, while ``bar`` is an ``integer``:
```

Author: I'm not sure using back ticks for "boolean" and "integer" is a good idea here, since the actual code below uses `bool` (not `boolean`) and `int` (not `integer`). Doesn't that create confusion?

Reviewer: See my other comment below about defining a minimal set of types that must be supported.

.. code-block:: twig

    {% types {
        foo: 'bool',
        bar: 'int',
    } %}

> You may put these all on one line. However, using one line per variable improves readability.

Reviewer: I think we can remove this sentence as this is true for any mapping.

> This tag has no effect on the template's output or runtime behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, this tag does not affect the template compilation or runtime behavior.
```

Its purpose is to enable designers and developers to document and specify the context's available

> and/or required variables.

Reviewer: I would remove this sentence (see my comment below about creativity).

Author: I do want to point out the raison d'être for this to hopefully push adoption.

If the tag doesn't affect templates and seemingly has no point (if you're just looking at the official documentation), then won't many developers ignore and forget about this tag entirely?

I'm fine with removing this to keep the docs clean and to the point. I just wanted to bring up why I included this. Let me know what you prefer.

Reviewer: I see. Maybe we could rephrase to suggest that this is one possible use case?

Author: How about

> While Twig itself does not validate variables or their types, this tag enables extensions to do this.

Reviewer: That works for me

Additionally, :ref:`Twig extensions <creating_extensions>` can analyze these tags to perform compile-time and

> runtime analysis of templates in order to increase code quality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
runtime analysis of templates.
```

IMHO, it's not just about code quality. Let's people be creative :)

Author: See my comment below.

.. note::

>     The syntax for and contents of type strings are intentionally left out of scope. 

Reviewer: Thinking out loud here: maybe we can document a default subset that should always be supported by extensions, the basic types used by Twig: boolean, number (maybe integer, float), mapping, sequence, string/stringable, object, iterable?

Author: Let's discuss this in #4165. I'll quote your point and respond there.

``types``
=========

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. versionadded:: 3.13

    The ``types`` tag was added in Twig 3.13. This tag is **experimental** and can change based on usage and feedback.
```

> The ``types`` tag declares the types for template variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``types`` tag declares the types of template variables.
```

To do this, specify a :ref:`mapping <twig-expressions>` of names to their types as strings. 

> Here is how you declare that variable ``foo`` is a boolean, while ``bar`` is an integer (see note below):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is how to declare that ``foo`` is a boolean, while ``bar`` is an integer (see note below):
```

.. code-block:: twig

    {% types {
        foo: 'bool',
        bar: 'int',
    } %}

> You can declare variables as optional by adding the '?' suffix:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can declare variables as optional by adding the ``?`` suffix:
```

.. code-block:: twig

    {% types {
        foo: 'bool',
        bar?: 'int',
    } %}

By default, this tag does not affect the template compilation or runtime behavior.

Its purpose is to enable designers and developers to document and specify the context's available
and/or required variables. While Twig itself does not validate variables or their types, this tag enables extensions
to do this.

Additionally, :ref:`Twig extensions <creating_extensions>` can analyze these tags to perform compile-time and

> runtime analysis of templates in order to increase code quality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
runtime analysis of templates.
```

Could be more than just code quality (performance optimization comes to mind for instance).
